Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we are going to talk about the prototypical inheritance.
All right, so let's imagine if we wanted to do a true sort of child class in the prototype prototyping
style, and what would we do then?
OK, for example, we have a a function.
We have a another workshop function.
And what do we want to do?
We want to grab this workshop function and we want to inherit or extend from it its methods or its properties
or whatever its God to this another workshop.
We know how we can do it with the class constructors.
We don't how we can do it with that.
We just say extents and then we toss in the class, the constructor name and that's it.
But what do we do in the regular old school prototypes style?
What do we do then?
What do we do is we say another workshop, that prototype we grab the prototype of the another workshop,
which is that object that we don't have a name for it.
And we say that object that create workshop prototype.
All right.
And what does that mean?
It means that we are saying take the prototype that I initially got, take this prototype that I initially
got, which is not what I want, and change where it is linked to make sure that a lengths to workshop
that prototype, no object that create does two things.
This method object that create does two things.
OK, it is a utility built into in the first five and it does two things.
I'm going to list the two things and I'm going to let you think if those two things sound familiar to
you.
Right.
The first thing that object that career does is create a brand new object.
And then the second thing it does is link that object to another object.
OK, so it is the first two steps of the new algorithm and the specific API method called object that
create.
So the first two steps of the new keyword is done using the object that creates.
So it creates a brand new object and it links it to another object.
What does that another object that another object is right there, right here.
That another object is the main JavaScript object.
So if I were to open this image once more and if I come here even though the names are different, but
you can think of think about it like this, so we have a another instead of this workshop, we have
another workshop function and another workshop.
That prototype is going to refer to this object for which we don't have a name.
And then when we say object that create it is going to create a brand new object like this and it is
going to link it to another object, which is object, another workshop, that prototype.
Right.
So using this line of code, we can extend or inherit from the from a parent via prototype or from a
parent function into a child function.
Right.
We can inherit from it.
So now if we come to line number six, if I come here right now, what do we want to do?
We want to find all what all these this keywords, all of them.
What do they refer to?
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to come to line number sixteen right soon here.
What do we have is we have a new keyword that does those four things that we have done so many times.
Right.
And it is going to invoke this function, another function.
And we know that both of these functions, this another workshop and this workshop, both of them refer
to the two one object, that object that we don't have a name for.
And we pass in note, right?
So whenever we pass in Noah, what does that mean?
It means that there is something inside this, another workshop that is going to grab the snow.
So whenever I pass in, Noah, so why don't we have to do is I'm going to copy this and I'm going to
paste it right here.
The reason that I just copied it, even though this is not actually like literally this is this is not
happening.
We are not rearranging the code.
This this is something that I'm doing so you can understand.
So whenever we inherit from whenever we do this line, it means that this teacher is inherited in here
as well.
So if I say Noah, Noah is going to be copied from here and is going to be passed in here, passed in
here and passed in here.
So now the this key word of the workshop function is referring to what it is referring to this Geass
class, because the genius class is the object and the final step of this new Keywood, what was it?
If the function does not return, an object with the new keyword assumes you meant to return that this
key word.
And what is this key we're referring to?
We go to the call site, whereas the concept, the concept is right here.
So it is referring to this JS class and this jazz class has a teacher property on it.
And what is the value for that?
It is no.
So this teacher is going to be.
No, I'm just going to go back a few levels.
I don't need to really, like, literally do it.
So this Noah is going to be passed right here.
We are going to see that this teacher is actually Noah.
So this keyword is going to be pointing to Noah.
And this keyword is actually pointing to this Geass class, right?
So now what we are going to do is I'm going to come to here to this Jayce class that speak up and now
we are going to go one level up the prototype chain.
So all of this this is called parotid.
Whenever we grab a property from a parent, it is going to it is going to be called inheritance or in
the class syntax.
We just call it extending or extension.
That's it.
So this is what this is how we inherited this into here or actually this another workshop inherited
this line of code.
And now that's why these these are known.
Right.
But if we come here, this is actually the true part of the prototype of change.
We can see that we have a reduced class and a speaker method on it.
If we come to the gist class, do we have a speaker from speaker method on it?
No, we don't.
So there is that object right here, like let's say this is the genius object, even though this is
Jianguo, think of it like it just does it have a speaker method on it.
No it doesn't.
So what we are going to do is we are going to go one level up so the level up is going to be another
workshop.
Does another workshop have a another workshop that prototype?
Does it have a speaker method on it?
No.
So what we are going to do, we are going to go one level up.
The level up is this was another workshop prototype and the second level up is workshop, the prototype,
which is this one.
Does this have a speaker method on it?
Well, actually, this is another workshop.
Has it?
Sorry, I kind of messed it up when whenever we look at the Aegis class, whether or not it has a speaker
speaker method.
No, it doesn't.
So we go one level up.
If we go to the object to which this another workshop is pointing with this prototype property, does
that have you speak of method on it?
Yes, it does.
And in here, what we are going to do is we are going to pass and this teacher's J.S. in here and we
are going to pass it in here.
So here we have again this key word.
What is this key is going to be pointing yet we need to go to the car side.
Where is the car side of this function?
So this function is the speaker function, right?
Where is the concept for the speaker function?
The concept is right here so that this key word is going to be pointing at the JS class as well.
All right, so and in here, what we have is we have called the workshop dot com through the explicit
binding, we have called it right here.
And this in here is all of these this is all of them are going to be pointing to the jazz class.
So if I save it this concer log this the teacher, because this workshop, that prototype has a ask
and ask method on it.
It hasn't asked method on it.
And the this keyword is going to be pointing to the Jesus object.
What we are going to get as the consul lock.
We are going to get Noer and what is the question, teachers genius.
I'm just going to toss in three question marks.
So it is a question.
And when I say it, we get the Nowhat teachers Jesus once more very, very quickly.
If you if you know what it is, then just that's it for you.
If you if you're not sure, I'm just going to go over this very quickly.
All right.
So what we did was, first off, we we inherited all the everything that the workshop function had inside
the another workshop.
All right.
And after that, what we did was we called the workshop through the explicit binding in here.
But we have it this key word.
So we need to know where this word, this this key word is pointing it.
So we need to go to the call side.
Where is the concept for the workshop?
The concept for the workshop is actually right here, but still we cannot find it because it is here,
but it is called inside the another workshop function.
Right.
Where is the call for the another workshop function?
It is right here.
And we know that the this keyword is going to be is will be pointing not as will be will be pointing
at the class.
Right.
So the Geass class is an object that that this key word is going to be pointing at.
And what is the property that that is associated with the this keyword?
It is the teacher property.
So this teacher property is going to be copied down to this object.
All right, and what is the value for that, the value for that is going to be no.
So we know that this this call, we know that the call method or the appli method or the BINDE method,
they take as their first argument that this keyword so this keyword is going to be this object.
And we know that the teacher is going to be no.
And this teacher is going to be a teacher.
That's why it is going to be.
No.
And if we come to line number 18, we call the speaker method on the class object.
And for this, if we go and look at the object, the class doesn't have a speaker.
So we go one level up and we can find it in the prototype of another workshop.
It does have a speaker method.
And what it does, it executes this don't ask.
Now, what is this referring to?
We need to go to the call side.
Where is the call side for this function?
It is right here.
So this this key word right here is going to be pointing at the jazz class as well.
So this, this and the this one as well.
All these three, this is all of them.
They're going to be pointing at the Aegis class.
But because this workshop, that prototype that ask this workshop prototype object, it has a aske method
on it.
This Aske method will have been inherited by the another workshop as well.
So it is right here as well.
So in this case, this the teacher will also be pointing at deejay's class for which the value is no.
And that's why when we save it, we get now it is a very, very complicated case of prototyping inheritance.
And this this is exactly equivalent to what we did here to the extents and superclass.
So what we did.
OK, so this has super what we did here.
This, this that I've highlighted here is exactly the same as what I've done here.
This is exactly the same.
So the choice is up to you.
Which one do we want?
Do you want to use?
I told you, if you want to do like the class syntax, you want to do the class syntax, which is a
template for creating objects.
That's why it is called object oriented programming, or some people call it object oriented programming.
All right, because even though this is not an object, this class I'm just going to highlight, I'm
just going to come in it and so it is visible, we are going to do this.
There is no super with the prototype inheritance.
That's why I'm not going to do it.
There is no way to do it, actually.
So this is the class syntax.
All right.
And this is what it looks underneath.
So this is what you're driving.
This is what the engine looks like, right.
So it is up to you that you want to use this syntax or you want to use this syntax.
But it is a best practice that you use this syntax.
You can see that it is way easier, way simpler than what we had there.
OK, I should come in this to end as well.
What do we have there?
And this gets very, very confusing.
If you have two or more like if you have 10, 15 instances of classes, different classes, then it
is going to get very confusing.
But this this syntax is very readable.
We know where is our workshop class.
We know that we have extended the workshop class.
So all of these are going to be copied here or they are going to be inherited here.
We just say extend.
So is there going to be extended here?
And we we also have a speaker method on this, another workshop.
So now the workshop, it has two methods, but the another workshop, it has three methods.
One method is in here and two other methods are here.
And in this, another workshop has access to its own method, as well as the methods of its parent,
the same thing happens here.
It's not that visible, but that's exactly what's happening.
So this is the sugar layer that people call it.
This is the syntactic sugar.
In case you're wondering what the excuse me what these syntactic sugar looks like.
So this is the syntactic sugar and that's why it is called sugar, because it is much better looking
and awesomer syntax for classes than what we had, like prototypical inheritance or prototypes.
So this is the class syntax.
This is the prototype syntax.
This is what's what's happening underneath.
And it gets very confusing.
Now, this is a very, very simple thing.
We are just logging something to the console.
Now, imagine if you were to create an application that how like like at least 200, 300 lines of code.
Now, imagine the work that you have to do, but when it comes to class syntax, it's way easier if
you use this syntax.
We know our constructor, we know our methods.
We know what extents, what class extends what.
We know the instances that we have instantiated.
We know all of that.
And it is very simple to read this syntax is simpler than this one.
That's why we just went over this syntax.
But this and this is not the syntax that we will be using, because I told you that if you want to do
a class oriented, then if you want to use classes, then you should do the proper syntax.
You should not do like this prototypes.
This was just so you can understand what is happening between behind the classes or underneath the classes
and where the classes have come from.
Right.
And the classes, they do have a super keyword, which you cannot find in the prototypes.
It was not there is not equivalent to the super keyword before E 2015.
That's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.